Danube Ivanovich (1).

Epic
 
             a) Dunayushko.

Ostalsa Danube from her little father,
From my mother she remained stupid.
He went for a walk from horde to horde, from Lithuania to Lithuania.
He went to see King Lyakhovimsky.
He served exactly at nine years old -
For three years he served in the steward,
For three years he served in the dish 1 ,
For three years he was in the new hallway;
During the day on the new entryway,
And at night on Nastasya's white breasts.
The king loved him and favored him, The
Queen's wife is more than that,
And darling Nastasya the Queen’s keeps her soul.
The owner of the king of Lehovim is honored with a feast
For all knesus and
wealthy And eminent merchant.
Danube is invited.
Nastasya korolyishna calms him down:
“Oh, you Danube son Ivanovich!
Do not go to an honorable feast.
At an honorable feast, everyone is awaited
And, there are, boastful;
And you, Danube, are such an overflowing one -
You will brag about me, a red maiden. "
Danube Nastasya did not listen.
He washed himself with spring water
And in a colored dress he
outfitted , Comes to an honorable feast.
At the feast they became merry piens,
At the honorable pride they were;
Smart bragging about his own sister,
A crazy bragging about his young wife,
One Danube does not eat, does not drink
And does not brag about anything.
Here King Lyakhovimskiy comes to him -
“ Oh , you Danube and son Ivanovich!
Ali is not your place for your fatherland,
Or they have carried you with a
spell , Why don't you eat, don't drink
And brag about nothing? "
Then Danube and his son Ivanovich spoke up:
“Ah, you are the King of Lyakhovim!
I have a place for you from your fatherland,
And they didn’t carry me with a spell,
And I have nothing to do, good fellow, and
I have nothing to boast about. ”
Here King Lyakhovimskiy will speak:
“ Oh , you Danube and son Ivanovich!
You take the single-gold keys,
Go to the deep cellars,
Take the treasury-sow 2 , get as many as you need;
But no - go to the stables yard,
You choose the best horse
And brag about it.
Danube and his son Ivanovich
will make a sound : “I am ashamed of the young man;
And it’s embarrassing to boast about it,
But you better give me a cup of green wine
Equal to one and a half buckets,
And another cup is sweet to honey. "
Then they bring him a glass of green wine, equal to
one and a half buckets.
He takes the Danube with one hand,
He
drinks with one spirit, He drinks it with sweet honey.
Here Danube and his son Ivanovich will sound:
“Oh, you are the king and Lyakhovinsky!
You let me say a word The
demon of that execution is the demon of the dead
And the demon of that sabel without a sharp one. " -
"Speak, Danube, what they need." -
“I stayed from my little father,
From my mother I remained stupid.
I went for a walk from horde to horde, from Moscow to Lithuania.
I went to see King Lyakhovimsky.
I served for exactly nine years -
For three years I served in the steward,
For three years I was in the saucers,
For three years I was in the new hallway,
In the daytime in the new hallway,
And at night on Nastasya’s white breasts,
The King loved me and favored me, The
Queen’s more than that,
And darling Nastasya kingship is holding on to the soul. "
Then the king fell for misfortune and for great,
He screamed and screamed in his own voice:
“Ah, you are scarlet-woods 3 ,
Ah, you are the executioners, and you are not sweet!
You take the Danube by the arms,
Lead him to the pure field
And cut his wild head,
Bring it to me for a show. "
Here the Danube extended with everyone,
Then the executioners grabbed the Danube in
front of their hands, They led him into the open field to
Sich to chop off his riotous head.
Here Danube and son Ivanovich
will shout : "Ah, you are alovya-palovya,
you
are not merciful executioners, you take the treasury as much as you need,
Lead me past Nastasya's yard."
Then the executioners became prideful on the treasury,
They led the Danube past Nastasin's yard.
He screamed and shouted in his own voice:
"Forgive me, ask my white light,
And forgive me, ask the Orthodox people,
Forgive my dear Nastasya korishnya!"
They led the Danube into the open field to
Sich-to chop off his riotous head.
Here Nastasya did not hear in her sleep.
He shouted in fluorine nakon:
"You forgive me, ask my white light,
And forgive me, ask the Orthodox people,
Forgive me darling Nastasya korishnya!"
He screamed for the third time - The
chambers moved from corner to corner
And broke within the glass.
Then Nastasya woke up from sleep,
Threw her little window into her mouth -
“Ah, you are not the executioners,
you take the treasury as much as you need,
Go to the tavern,
Buy the tavern’s
head, Cut off his wild head,
Bring the king to the show, -
Give the Danube in my arms;
I will take care and bury him. "
Here the executioners took pride in the treasury;
They gave the Danube to Nastasya the princes,
We went to a tavern, We
bought a tavern,
They chopped off his riotous head,
Brought to the king for display.
Here Nastasya the prince will speak:
“Oh, you Danube and son Ivanovich!
Tell me, do you have in Holy Russia,
In the city in Kiev
? Do you have a father, mother,
Do you have a young wife and little children? "
Then Danube son Ivanovich will say:
"I have in Holy Russia,
I have a father, mother, A
young wife and little children."
“What have you, Danube, haven’t said before?”
Here they began to stumble;
She gives him good horse.
Send the Danube to Holy Russia, to Kiev city;
F pure poly kureva 4 is  worth.
He comes to Kiev city,
To that whether the sun is the Lord.

