ILIAD
Chapter A

Muse, sing the wrath of the famous Achilles, 	
the desert! He watered the Achaeans with medicines, 	
and a multitude sent Levantine souls to Hades 	
he was the chief, and he fed the dogs with their bodies 	
and all the vultures (this is how Zeus had his opinion defined), 	5
from the beginning as if he was caught with the fast Achilles 	
Atrea the first son and they divorced. 	
. 	
How quickly do you say God made them accountable? 	
The son of Zeus and Leto, who with Agamemnon 	
got angry and broke out bad in the army plague, 	10
and people were dying, because in the ministry Chryssa 	
Atrea the son did not want to show a little guts. 	
. 	
Because the ships of the Achaeans came quickly 	
to set free wanting his daughter, and rich 	
he had it with him, and held it in his hands 	
you go to the golden stick, the wreaths of Apollo, 	
and all the other Achaeans were hot-tempered, 	15
but the first ones mostly, the two sons of Atrea 	
"Atrea the sons and the others you copper-armed Argites, 	
may the gods let you enter Priam 	
the castle, and in your homes with the good to drag; 	
but give me my daughter, and take me 	20
its acquisition, so that the son may help you of Zeus! " 	
. 	
Then all the other Argites shouted with respect 	
"Take the hour again, have mercy on the old man!" 	
but the parliament did not like King Agamemnon, 	
she just kicked him hard and said 'tight' to speak 	25
"I, old man, did not find you around on the ships 	
for now be late for back to work, 	
neither a stick nor a crown of God will save you. 	
I do not give the daughter! ... even when she is old 	
away from her homeland, in my home, in Argos, 	30
the day with the loom, the night at my side ... 	
But draw! do not ignite me anymore if you want to leave strong! " 	
. 	
He said, and the old man was overshadowed and agitated. 	
And with a heavy soul he took the sand from end to end 	
of the turbulent sea, and so all with curses 	35
of the densely woven Letos the son was cuddling 	
"Listen to me, silversmith, you who are defending 	
Killa with so much life and the island of Chryssa, 	
and that your invincible hand guards Tenedos. 	
Σμιθέα! if I also decorated your beautiful church, 	
if I hit any bullets on the back, thick 	40
of lambs and oxen, hear my now tangible desire; 	
with your shuttles let the Danaans shed my tears! " 	
. 	
He said, and Apollo met the curse seven times. 	
And boiling oh the mountain went down the ridges, 	
with bow hanging and shuttle. 	45
The shuttles roared when he was shaken in anger 	
on his back. And it was cloudy like a black night, 	
Then he sits down from the army and splits, 	
and the click was darker, not the silver bow. 	
Mules first harvested white-haired dogs, 	50
but also the men then with the bitter shuttles 	
it was heavy; and all the fires were burning and they were dying. 	
. 	
For nine days the shuttles were falling in the army, 	
but after ten o'clock Achilles preaches, 	
because the goddess, the crystalline Hera, enlightened him, 	55
what grieved the Achaeans like a shield dying. 	
And the barks shouted at them and everyone gathered, 	
The fast-footed son of Pelias got up and said so 	
"Atrea son, now we dare the army again 	
we will take a shower back to our homes, 	60
first from death if any of us is saved, if so 	
let the war reap us and let the plague eat us. 	
Only a minister should be asked or a prophet, 	
or a dreamer - and Zeus sends them tangibly - 	
to explain what lessons Phoebus taught us, 	
do not waste a hundred, do not curse forgotten, 	65
if he wants hair from lambs and bulls, maybe gizzard 	
to receive, and to save us from the terrible doom. " 	
. 	
So he said to himself and sat down. And then Karchas 	
he arose, the deepest of all the prophets 	
who possessed everything - present, sternal, and past - 	70
and with his fortune-telling, that his son Zeus Phoebus 	
endowed him, showed Tria the way to the ships. 	
Aptus with his wise mind spoke to them and said so 	
"Son of Peleus, let me love you, beloved of Zeus, 	
to say Apollo the wrath of the guardian master, 	75
Well, I tell you, but swear to me and order 	
to help me willingly with speech and pole. 	
Someone will dare to tease the Argites all 	
he surpasses them in power and his speech is aggravated. 	
Why does the lord overcome the weak if he fights, 	80
and his anger if he swallows at that time, 	
but he keeps his passion in his heart, until he gets it 	
cistern one day gdikiomo. I wonder if you will save me. " 	
. 	
And then the winged owl answered Achilles 	
"Fearlessly and calmly say what prophecy you have. 	85
What to! but the myriad of Zeus son, who, Karha, 	
you are wrapped up and you say what is written, fate 	
man no one, as long as I live and have my eyes open, 	
I put it on you, a murderous hand does not lift you 	
here in the plain, not even if you say Agamemnon 	90
who is the first king to be praised here as he is. " 	
. 	
Then the deep prophet was encouraged and told them 	
"He did not waste a hundred, a curse not forgotten, 	
the only reason is that the officer wronged the master, 	
what he rejected the purchase and he supports his daughter. 	95
That's why Phoebus sent us misfortunes, and even more 	
he will send; and the deadly plague will not cease 	
before her father's black-eyed daughter 	
unpaid redeemable sees it again, 	
before we send a hundred and god's to Chryssa. 	100
"Maybe it will soften now and we will all do it again." 	
. 	
He said to himself and sat down. And then Agamemnon 	
Atrea the son got up, the strong master, 	
foaming, and out of anger his black savages 	
they swelled, and his eye spilled fires and sparks. 	
Karha first glanced wildly and toupee 	105
"Bad luck, happy drinkers, don't talk! 	
He always loves to be unpleasantly prophesied by your mind, 	
and did not do a good thing, did not say in your life. 	
Now in Askeri again you are screaming and prophesying 	
how quickly Phoebus sends them so much misfortune, 	110
what I in the rich market did not deprive the daughter, 	
I want this tower to adorn my tower. 	
Yes, and from my virginity I prefer her terry, 	
Clytemnestra, what a lesson it is not worse 	
in beauty, or in the body, in knowledge, and in the hands. 	115
Nevertheless, I willingly give it back if necessary; 	
I do not want our army to be lost, only to be saved. 	
But another me, ambassador, look to find me, 	
right now! I am not alone 	
so to live. And I dare you see it all, 	
that my now nia is in other hands. " 	120
. 	
But then the winged foot answered Achilles 	
"Atrea, famous son, most insatiable of all, 	
how else do you want the lads to give you an ambassador? 	
I do not know anywhere our very unfortunate thing. 	
They gave us what we got by pressing so many countries, 	125
and it is a shame for the people to gather again. 	
Only now you are new to Phoebus, and so are the Argites 	
we will pay you double and triple if Zeus 	
bring it and let's build another rich castle. " 	
. 	
Then the strong master Agamemnon makes him 	130
"Do not you say gnostic, theomorphic Achilles, 	
you make it like this, and you do not laugh at me easily, you do not convince. 	
Or your own speed to go to the hut, 	
You want me to sit like this, with my hands here indestructibly 	
And do you tell me to send her back to her place? 	
Well, if the kids give me any other pretty girls, 	135
as my heart desires, equal to the touch I lose; 	
otherwise, only then I go to Aia 	
or I take yours, or even Dysseas 	
I'm going to get it ... and then let it go to hell! 	
But once again we study them again; 	140
now come let us break a ship in the sea, 	
crack and select oils, put the oxen in, 	
put his golden daughter Chryssa, 	
and captain let us drag one of the lords, 	
Ajax or Domenias or the wise Dysseas, 	145
or you, the most perfect body of all, Achilles, 	
in order to divide the god with the slaughterers. " 	
. 	
Then Achilles glared at him 	
"Oh my shameless body, my body without faith, 	
how do you say none of us will willingly hear your word 	150
and will he run in an open war or in a carter? 	
What I did not come because of the Trojans 	
to fight here, because they did not blame me; 	
neither did my horses snatch away their drinkers nor oxen, 	
do not burn my seedlings and deep stalks 	155
down in Ftia, because many in the middle separate us, 	
you want ridges simply shaded you want foamy sea; 	
Only for your sake, shame on you, I went out 	
with you, to find you, bad luck, from the Trojans 	
and your brother is a loser. You can't remember them, 	160
You just defy it! And now you will bully me 	
to take with your hand the daughter, that for her 	
I spat blood and the army gave it to me. 	
As for you, I do not win a few drinks 	
every time we get a rich country of the Trojans; 	
Only blood and sword, yes! hence the hands 	165
they work first, but if it gives birth and you share, you get it 	
most, with a little me, but without complaint, 	
I go back, and let me melt the Trojans by fighting. 	
And now I run! what much more convenient to draw 	
goodbye to my companies, how insignificant I think 	170
here that I will not chew life and great treasure. " 	
. 	
Then the strong master Agamemnon tells him 	
"Good time if you have a desire to go! For me 	
I do not encourage you, do not dare, to stay; I have others 	
here my helpers, in fact the deep-seated Zeus. 	175
Most of all I fight you leaders, 	
what do you always want, accounts, murders and wars. 	
Hurry up if you are strong, if you are a lad 	
some god gave it to you, in Ftia, if you define it, draw 	
with all your army together, and protect as much as you want 	
the Myrmidons; 	180
I'm not afraid if you run out. And hear the word that I command you; 	
one back and Phoebus asks me for Chrysopoula, 	
with people and my ship I will send it to him, 	
but in your hut I will be buried and I will take you 	
your youth, the rosy-eyed Vrisoula, to learn 	185
like how much I surpass you, even someone else trembles 	
like me, so openly to promote myself as an equal. " 	
. 	
Agamemnon, Achilles and Athena 	
. 	
He said, and he lit up to hear such a speech, 	
and his heart doubled in the pierced breasts, 	
or pull the sharp blade to the side, 	190
to upset the parliament, the king to slaughter, 	
or to silence the heart and drown the anger. 	
But when he touched it, he stirred the depths in his heart 	
and outside the sheath he was stripping the sword, here it is! arrives 	
Athena oh heaven, what was sent by Hera, 	195
who had an equal collection of them and had equal love for them. 	
And he stands behind him, grabs his brown hair, 	
on the one hand only visible, invisible to others. 	
He is stunned and turns around, and recognizes immediately 	
Athena whose sharp eyes were sharpened. 	200
And shouting at her, she screams with feathered words 	
"Daughter of Zeus scary, why did you come again now? 	
do not you want to see the defiance of King Agamemnon? 	
I'll tell you why you might see it happen; 	
as soon as his arrogance in Hades will go to him. " 	205
. 	
Then the goddess, the daughter of Zeus, answered 	
"I came to heaven to quell your anger, 	
if you want to hear, and the goddess Hera has been sent to me, 	
that collection equal to yours also has equal love. 	
Just stop! and let there be the sword in the fig tree. 	210
But if you want with words, decorate it as your heart desires, 	
because the reason I will say will not be seen; 	
for the tangible insult double and triple one day 	
you will receive gifts; just carry on and listen to us. " 	
. 	
And then Achilles answers her fast-footed 	215
"Let it be your word, goddess! I'm so drowned 	
out of rage, what better way to do it; 	
if you listen to the gods, your ears will increase your desire. " 	
. 	
So he said, and stopped the sent handful 	
you go to the silver sword and into the fig tree 	
he pushed the sword again, without believing me 	220
in the definition of Athena. And the daughter of Zeus 	
flies back to Elympos, to Zeus the palaces, 	
there to mix the gods and the other goddesses. 	
. 	
And he then returns to Agamemnon 	
with the curses, and the anger did not give up 	
"A wine-stricken bitch body with eyes, 	225
but the deer's heart! never relies on you 	
to go out with their army of Trojans to strike, 	
or after us the leaders as if we were going to a carter; 	
grace touches you seems in your mind and longing. 	
Oh yes, much better to grab women 	
in the wide camp, no one will bother you. 	230
Yes! populist king, why do you define cowards; 	
otherwise, your rapture would be tangled and so would your sternum. 	
But listen to the reason I will say, the oath I will take. 	
But this is the stick that no longer drinks twigs and leaves 	
does not come out since it was cut from the trunk to the log, 	235
not atheist, because he tore the bark and the leaves 	
around the sharp copper, and now they hold it 	
in the hands of the elders and in the name of Zeus 	
they judge the people, and they have a heavy oath, 	
Yes, one day the Danes will long for everyone 	240
Achilles; then you and all your pain 	
you will not be able, I tell you, to give them any help, 	
as if they fell from the hand of Hector, wounded, 	
and in your breasts the heart will long, it will melt 	
that you shamed the strongest pole of the Achaeans. " 	
. 	
He said, and damn the stick shakes wildly 	245
with gold nails embroidered, and then go sit down. 	
And there the other was braking. Then it is thrown whole 	
the chrysostom Nestor with the sweet tongue, 	
which, even from honey, sounded more sugary. 	
It took generations to pass 	250
in Pylos, who were born before his own years 	
and they grew up, and then defined a third generation. 	
. 	
Aftos spoke to them in cognitive words and said so 	
"Oh, what a pity that plagued the homeland! 	
How Priam and his sons will fly with joy, 	255
and how much every Trojan soul will rejoice, 	
let them know everything by heart, how do you eat like that, 	
you who are first in the sword and in the parliament are first! 	
But listen to me; and I surpass you in years. 	
Because in my youth I mixed with warriors 	260
Your best ones, but they never dared to defy me. 	
Because I have not seen such heroes yet, either 	
I will see like a new king, like an oak, 	
like the wretched Polyphemus, Xadis, Perithos, 	
like Thesia, it was as if a god was pouring down from the heavens. 	265
They were the strongest lads on earth; 	
they were strong and they hit me hard, I climbed 	
wild, and the people were puzzled how they got rid of them. 	
Then I mixed with touches as if I had arrived at Pylos, 	
beyond a distant place, what lonely exploded me. 	270
And then I was fighting in my place; 	
but now the earth does not feed the mortal it could 	
to go out with those beasts. Such heroes me 	
in my advice they listened, my words grew louder. 	
But I say listen to me and you will not regret. 	
And you do not take, listen to me, and even if you can, the daughter, 	275
only once it was given to Achilles by the askers; 	
but fight with the king and you to be accountable 	
you do not want to go to Pelias, and go against it. 	
We are not all equal to the king that Zeus 	
he glorified him and rules with his wand. 	
If you are a lad, you are a goddess if you have a mother, 	280
but sounai tangible superior, what more does he define. 	
Come on, Agamemnon, stop it! Yes, thanks for looking around, 	
do not his anger, let it ignite, meet, that always 	
like a castle, it stands untouched by us in wars. " 	
. 	
Then the strong master Agamemnon tells him 	285
"Yes, old man, you spoke everything cognitively and rightly so. 	
But let him always be the first to look here. 	
he wants a head for all of us, to become a master too, 	
to give orders to all, and who will raise them? 	
And if the immortal gods made him manly, 	290
for his touch he must pour insults from the tongue as well? " 	
. 	
But then Achilles rebuked him 	
"Indeed, I was burying my body and nothing, 	
if I always yelled at you, open your mouth; 	
order tangible from others, they are not tangible for me! 	295
But this I will still tell you and you put it in your mind. 	297
I will not take the chariots to hit you, 	
with you here or your other. none, for the daughter, 	
what did you give her and you take it back from me; 	
but on the other hand I say to my fast and black boat 	300
you will not touch me without my will. 	
See, come, if you want, try it, so that everyone can see it here too ... 	
your black blood will quickly stain the pole. " 	
. 	
This is how the gods quarreled with angry words, 	
They got up, and luck divided the ships. 	305
And Achilles was going the way of the huts 	
against Patroclus and his own people; 	
and Agamemnon sailed into the sea on a ship, 	
and he chose the lanterns as twenty unnamed, 	
and he entered into the slaughter of Phoebus, and then 	
brought in and sat down the hour Chrysopoula; 	310
and in the end the wise Dysseas entered as leader. 	
. 	
So they came in and started touching the wave above. 	
and his son Atrea ordered that the askeri be worshiped 	
and they were well-to-do and flew to the shore 	
the filth, and they slaughtered Phoebus' ox oxen correctly 	315
near the turbulent beach; and the gizzard 	
it twisted, in the smoke all around, to the heavens. 	
. 	
Chrisida leaves with Chryssas, while Achilles sits sadly 	
. 	
Such touches had jobs in the wide plain. 	
And the king did not forget the civil war from the time 	
who in parliament bullied the famous Achilles, 	
only Tarthyvis was shouted by the fast Vryvadis, 	320
that he had his barkers and their relatives trusted 	
"Ameet in Achilles the two, and through the hut 	
take the beautiful one by the hand and bring me a girl. 	
But if he does not give it, I start with more people, including me 	
I take it. I think it will be heavier to touch ... " 	325
. 	
So he said and sent them with angry words. 	
And involuntarily the barkers pulled the edge slowly 	
of the sterilized sea, and in the karavostasi 	
of the Myrmidons reached as far as the huts. 	
And they found an aphthon sitting near a hut 	
and his ship, no one rejoiced before him as he saw them. 	330
But they show respect to the leader with cowardice and respect 	
they stood, neither shouted nor greeted him. 	
But in his mind he stressed why they came and told them 	
"Good on the barkers, the gods and the men wearing oracles! 	
Simo ... it's not my fault, it's Agamemnon's fault 	335
who sends you a fountain for the lily of the valley. 	
Come on, you were born Patroclus, take out your daughter 	
and give them everything. Even if they are tangible witnesses 	
before the immortal gods and mortal men 	
and to the hard king, if one day again 	340
they need me to escape from a vicious longing 	
the 'askeri. What a mess he made, 	
zero holds a stalia to see both back and forth, 	
how will the askeri fight him harmlessly on the ships. " 	
. 	
He said, and Patroclus listens to his comrade, 	345
and takes the rosy-haired girl out of the hut 	
and gives it to them all. And they were turning back 	
in the plain, and involuntarily the daughter was walking together. 	
. 	
And Achilles then rains and sits on the beach 	
aside, and wept there, from the comrades apart, 	350
alarga towards the seas shielding. And the hands 	
he spread out and often called his mother 	
"My mother, after you gave birth to me and a short time ago, 	
let Satan even be the son of the thunderous Zeus, 	
to honor me; only tangible stalia does not count on me. 	
Because Atrea is now the son, the firstborn of Argos, 	355
They made me very unjust; because he took me by force 	
and I have the news that the army has given me an ambassador. " 	
. 	
He said in mourning, and the lady mother heard the words, 	
in the depths of the sea to her old father, 	
and came out of the fish like a roar 	
and sat on his side. And while he was typing, 	360
caressed him so tenderly and toupe dearly 	
"What are you crying about, my child?" what hurt your guts? 	
Say it, let us both know, and do not tell a secret. " 	
. 	
Then Achilles told her with heavy sighs 	
"You know - what can I say to you? - and you do not know? 	365
We went beyond Thebes, to Aitiou the state, 	
that we fed her, and here we brought the thing. 	
The army rightly distributed it among itself, 	
and they divorced the king's Chrysopoula. 	
Chryssas then, the officer of the guard Apollo, 	370
came from beyond to the fast ships of the Achaeans 	
to flee wanting his daughter, and rich 	
he had it with him, and held it in his hands, 	
you go to the golden stick, the wreaths of Apollo, 	
and all the other Achaeans were hot-tempered, 	
but the first ones mostly, the two sons of Atrea. 	375
Then all the other Argites shouted with respect 	
take the hour again, have mercy on the old man! ' 	
but the parliament did not like King Agamemnon, 	
she just kicked him hard and said 'tight' to speak. 	
So angry the old man left back again, 	380
and Phoebus then heard the old man's curse, 	
what was his favorite very much, and to the Argites 	
a terrible disease broke out, which afflicted the soldiers 	
they were dying, and the divine shuttles were falling everywhere 	
in the plain wide. Then the prophet tells us, 	
as if he held them deeply, the definitions of Apollo. 	385
I am the first to show Phoebus that they should share; 	
but the king took fire, and stood up, and was cast out 	
and a bully murmured which is already done. 	
What about boats all at once in Chryssa the mavromates 	
Argites having slaughtered for the god, 	390
and the girl of the Danes who mumbled to me, 	
his barkers came and took her back from me. 	
But help, mother, you, if you can, your manly son. 	
Draw to go to Elympos and embrace 	
Jupiter, if the heart of others, either by works or by word, 	395
a drop of sweets. Why in our home 	
I have heard you say and brag many times 	
how the black cloud of Saturn son, alone 	
among the gods, you saved him from bad longing, 	
when the other gods wanted - Poseidon, 	
Hera, and the goddess Athens - do not tie their hair. 	400
But from the hairs you, goddess, went to save him. 	
and above you shouted quickly the hundredth, 	
which the Gods call Myrrh-Mighty - but men 	
Aegean - because in power his parent also wins; 	
touch to Zeus sat down proudly, 	405
and they withdrew from their very fear. 	
But remind him now, and sit there, and catch him 	
the offspring, may the enemies want to help, 	
and those around the shore and the boat 	
to crush them with a great slaughter, the Argites, 	
so that everyone may feel the benefit of their king, 	410
and so that his son Atrea can still see his pity 	
who shamed the strongest pole of the Achaeans. " 	
. 	
And then, shedding tears, Thetis apologizes 	
"Oh my son, what did I raise the bitter-born? 	
May you live without even misery and tears on the ships, 	415
since your time is running out, it is not too far. 	
Only now a little animal and more bitter than all 	
mugins. . . the bad moment would die if I gave birth to you. 	
But take your word for it from the thunderous Zeus 	
I will go to Elympos alone, covered in snow, 	420
perhaps convinced. Just sit here on the ships now, 	
and always carry anger and do not touch battle. 	
What do the Ethiopians say at the Ocean table, 	
and Zeus went from the fish and all the gods with him; 	
but in twelve days he is back again, 	425
and then I will run to his bronze tower 	
I want to fall at his feet, and if I want to convince him! " 	
. 	
Thetis goes to find Zeus 	
. 	
So he said and left, and suddenly left him in the plain 	
giomato rage that was snatched by force and unintentionally 	
the beautified youth. 	430
. 	
. 	
And then Dysseas 	
in Chryssa he weighed together with the slaughter of Apollo. 	
And entering the deep harbor, their sails 	
they fold it and put it in the fast boat, 	
and the mast is laid on the riverbed lying down 	
the rigging, and even further in there in the araxovoli they take. 	435
And outside the weights break and tie the stern, 	
outside they go out to the shore, 	
and bring out the carnage they brought of Phoebus, 	
and Chrysopoulo jumps out through the trehantiri. 	
. 	
And bringing her to the altar the gnostic Dysseas, 	440
in the hands of the old-parent gives it and does it to him 	
"Old man, in Chryssa the king sends me to bring you 	
the daughter, and a hundred to slaughter Phoebus, 	
to pity the heart of the Achaeans who now 	
in the plain he sent longings to them. " 	445
. 	
He said, and handed it to him; his child 	
the old man took it with joy. And touch around immediately 	
the oxen lay on the beautifully built altar, 	
and then they were handcuffed and took the barley. 	
Then Chryssas began to beg them 	450
with loud screams and raised hands 	
"Listen to me, silversmith, you who are defending 	
Killa with so much life and the island of Chryssa, 	
and that your invincible hand guards Tenedos. 	
And others before you met my close friend, 	
and for my right you turned the askers of the Achaeans 	
and thou hast taught hard; and now again, Apollo, 	455
embrace you, still touch my desire, listen to me; 	
pity the Achaeans now and banish the plague. " 	
. 	
He said, and the prayer is heard by the son of Zeus. 	
. 	
As if they were praying barley while sprinkling, 	
first they lift the heads of the oxen, they slaughter them, 	
they peel them, cut the kidneys, and fold them 	460
with a roof, and they brought them together with pieces from everywhere. 	
And on top of that the old man was feeding on sketches containing 	
blond wine; and the young people were holding pentosugla near. 	
From the fire you digested and ate your entrails, 	
grind the other meats and pass them on the skewers, 	465
they bake them beautifully, beautifully and take them out of the fire, 	
And the work as if they finished and set up a table, 	
and nothing is missing from their hearts. 	
Finally, they satiated you well with food and drink, 	
the young men catch and drink the crumbs 	470
just to the lips, and then around to drink, 	
after they drank Apollo with the glasses first. 	
So all day with joy they softened Phoebus, 	
of the bumper chanting and the cute 	
praising a nutritionist; and he listened intently with sweetness. 	
And the sun reigned over you and took the darkness, 	475
then on the wood they leaned close to the palmari. 	
. 	
And the rosy-fingered nightgown Avgoula came, 	
and then they sternly went back to the plain. 	
And Phoebus sent them a stern little hawk, 	
and suddenly the oilmen set up the mast above 	480
and the white opened a cloth, and the cloth in the middle 	
from the age it swelled, and around the keel 	
it sounded like they were waving the well-dressed wave, 	
and the ship ran rampant, plowing the wave. 	
And now as if they came to the wide plain of Achaea, 	
pulled the black ship ashore, 	485
high in the sand, with phalanxes stacked far away, 	
and their neighbors scattered on the ships and huts. 	
. 	
However, he was sitting on the ships gall 	
the son the winged foot of the famous Peleus, 	
without a pro-parliament drinker to weigh himself, 	490
without going to war, they just twisted their guts 	
he said afterwards, and he longed for massacres and battles. 	
. 	
But finally, as if two or ten days had passed, 	
and the eternal gods on Elympos were returning 	
all together, and Zeus was walking fast. 	495
And Thetis did not forget the orders of her son, 	
The wave comes out of the shore, and goes up 	
morning morning on Elympos and in the big heavens. 	
And he found the son of Saturn apart from the other gods 	
you go to the myrioforfo mountain at the edge sitting. 	
And make it rain, she painted with her zervy hand 	500
the calf, and with his right hand touches the chin 	
and so the firstborn son embraces Saturn 	
"Lord Zeus, if others among the gods with a word 	
or with work I benefited you, oh do me a favor! 	
I help my sons ... tangible life in the world like the others 	505
he does not have, but neither does the king, his son Atrea, now 	
big toukan unjust; because he took it by force 	
and he has the news that the army has given him as an ambassador. 	
But you, even Zeus, help him, deep down, Olympus, 	
and until then give strength to the Trojans, give victories, 	
so that in my son the Danes go and fall. " 	510
. 	
Thetis begs Zeus 	
. 	
He said, but the overcast did not judge her, 	
For one hour he sat for a long time without saying a word. 	
And Thetis, as she rubbed her calf, was holding it 	
always tight, and from the beginning he skipped the speech 	
"Say yes to the truth and order mine, or even refuse - 	
and what's your member if you refuse? - to know I want me 	515
how much less do you count on me than the other gods. " 	
. 	
Then Saturn's son said with a heavy sigh 	
"Bad, very bad jobs you open with Hera, 	
and thou hast confounded me, she hath embroidered me with her bitter words; 	
which even so she constantly fights before the gods 	520
and yells at me for helping the Trojans in wars. 	
Just pull now you lest Hera feel you, 	
and I will make sure they are tangible. But stop 	
to bow my head, to soothe your mind. 	
I have no more important sign with the gods, 	525
what I keep unseen and true, and always 	
it will happen no matter what I order by shaking my head. " 	
. 	
So said Jupiter, and he raised his black eyebrows, 	
and around the divine head they stir 	
his immortals are curly, and the mountain shakes. 	530
. 	
As if they spoke, they are separated. And Theti 	
jumps from the bright mountain to the deep sea, 	
and Zeus goes to his tower. And all the gods in front of him 	
they got up from their seats, 	
nor did anyone decide to stay as they saw him 	535
that simone, only all of them stand upright in front of him. 	
. 	
Then Jupiter sat on his throne. And the Hour 	
she saw him and felt that she had scampered with him 	
Thetis, the daughter of the old man of the sea, 	
and immediately begins to speak to him with touching words 	
"With pion, Margiole, did you have conversations with the gods again? 	540
You always love, when I am far away, to decide 	
secretly from me, and your soul never drank 	
you come alone to tell me a word from your work. " 	
. 	
Then he told her of the gods and the father was human 	
"Now, do not hope for my every purpose; 	545
I dare you find it difficult even if I have a wife. 	
But if there is anything right to hear, from you 	
no one will know it before, neither god nor man; 	
but also that I want from the gods to count separately, 	
do not scrutinize it, do not examine it often. " 	550
. 	
Then the miss, the marble-necked Hera, tells him 	
"Okay, what are you sitting and saying, O Saturn? 	
And I will not ask you so much, I will not stun you until now, 	
only what you want, you can rest and meditate. 	
But I'm very worried that he will not convince you to change 	555
Thetis, the daughter of the seafarer 	
old man; 	
what came to you hurriedly and wiped the brood, 	
and I swore to her, I see, to help 	
Achilles, and many Danes to be exterminated. " 	
. 	
Then the son turns to Saturn and angrily does it 	560
"Poor thing, I do not deceive you, you just always feel something. 	
But you do not get anything out, except that you will cool me down 	
worse; and more tangible will cost you. 	
Even if what you say happened, he will say that this is what I want. 	
Just sit down carefully and my words are wild, 	565
do not get up, and all the gods that are around here 	
they do not save you, so I handful your hair. " 	
. 	
He said, and the lady, the lazy Hera, was overshadowed, 	
and she tightened her heart not to utter a word. 	
The gods in Zeus's palace got bored there, 	570
and Hephaestus, the famous craftsman, began first, 	
to talk to them, and he tried to help his mother 	
"And now our life will become miserable and unbearable, 	
if that's how you sneeze here like buzzards 	
and you are caught for the mortals! And our spree 	575
sweet will no longer bother anyone, what did the eater get. 	
I embrace my mother, as she feels it, 	
dwarf good and soft with father Zeus, 	
do not catch the bruises again, and spoil us 	
and us our food and drink. Because he can, if he wants to, 	580
let the thunderbolt throw us off the thrones 	
son of Saturn; what is much stronger than all. 	
But you with soft words call him, manna, 	
and then you will see a painful pain with us. " 	
. 	
So he said, and to his mother he gets up and puts 	585
her hands are plump coffee, and she shouts two words 	
"Do it, mannoula, isolate yourself, and with all your bitterness, 	
may my eyes see you, that I love you, paved 	
in the wood, and I will not be able to help you then 	
and let me long. How heavy it is to oppose Zeus. 	
. 	
What did I ask again to help you, 	590
but he grabbed me by the leg and tore me down 	
οχ το κατώφλι τ 'ουνού · κι' ολημερύς γυρνούσα, 	
and now it was night, I fell and went to the island of Lemnos, 	
I had I no longer had a soul; willingly then immediately, 	
"As if I had fallen, the Sindhs took me for a nap." 	
. 	
He said, and Saturn's daughter smiled, 	595
and with her smile from her child she takes 	
in the hands the coffee. And a touch of sugar cane 	
coming out of the shank, he was looking around to the right 	
and the other immortals. And they catch some laughs 	
the trismatic gods! ... endlessly, as if they saw 	
to drag Hephaestus gossiping. 	600
. 	
So they ate all day so that the Sun would fall, 	
and eat everything he asks for good food and drink, 	
you want a beautiful lute that Phoebus weighed, 	
do you want Muses who sang gracefully arada arada. 	
. 	
At the end of the sun the rays of light dived, 	605
and then inside they started to go and lean, 	
where the famous one built it 	
Hepheastion's master craftsman with his wise art; 	
and Zeus the lightning cloud 	
on the mattress he went and touched, where he always slept, 	610
sleep like a sweetheart. Up there turned 	
he was sleeping, and the golden-throned goddess near him, Hera. 	

